So let's start working on our little demo application here and for that, I'll clear all that code, I'll
remove it all,
of course if you want to still access it, you'll find it attached to multiple lectures in this module and on the
lectures prior to this one basically
and I want to start from scratch and work on this little demo application.
The idea of this demo application is that we have this input area up there where a user can enter
a title of a favorite movie and then an extra information where the user can set the name of the property
and then the value of the property,
so you can probably already see where this dynamic square bracket notation will be able to help us.
Well if we then click add movie, that movie with that information should be added and it should be output
down there in a list of movies where we output the title and also the extra information,
so of course the tricky thing there will be that we don't know the key name in advance so we'll
have to find some solution for that
and last but not least, we'll have that search bar here where we can enter some term or a part of
a word and then search for that
and if the title of a movie includes that search term, we want to show it here,
so all movies that include that part of the search term should be shown down there.
So that's the idea, now therefore here in objects.js,
I will start by selecting some things in the DOM and that will be the add movie button which we'll
need to add an event listener to to react to clicks on this button here
and also the search button which is that other button to which I want to add an event listener.
Now if we have a look at the HTML code, we see that this first button here, the add movie button has an
ID of add movie button and the filter button here has an ID of search btn, search button.
So that's what we can use here,
good old document and then get element by ID or use query selector, whatever you prefer
and then select the add movie button here and also the search button with document get element by ID
and then it was search btn.
So these are the two buttons.
Now of course we need functions that should be triggered when such a button is pressed and I will start
with the function that will actually add a movie because searching for movies will be hard if we can't
even add some.
So here, I'll again add a function and you can use any way of declaring or of defining this function you
prefer with the function keyword declaration here, with a function expression or with an arrow function
expression
and I will use the latter and then add my add movie handler here which holds this arrow function
here
but again it doesn't have to be an arrow function.
Now here in add movie handler, I want to gather all the user input and then add that to my movie.
So for the user input, I have three inputs here -
this input with an ID of title,
this input with an ID of extra name and this input with an ID of extra value.
Now I will select these inputs here in the add movie handler because I don't really need them anywhere
else in my code,
so there is no real need to declare them globally
and then we can have the title let's say here with document get element by ID and then it was title,
just title as an ID here
and that will give me the full DOM node but I'm not interested in the full DOM node but just in the
value of that DOM node. Since it's an input element, it will have a value property which holds whatever
the user entered.
Now I'm always interested in the extra information, so I have the extra name which I find on document
get element by ID and then that has the ID extra name, the value thereafter will have that ID
of extra value.
So here we access extra name.value because again this yields us access to this input DOM node and
this will have a value property which holds user input and then here we have the extra value which
is document get element by ID, extraValue.value.
Now we can add some validation here and check if title trim is equal to an empty string which means
it's empty
and maybe also check with an or separator if extra name trim is an empty value or if extra value trim
is an empty value,
so if either of these inputs was empty and if that is the case, I will just return here,
you could also show an alert
but yes I'll just return here,
not spend too much time on that validation.
So now that we know that we do have valid inputs,
I want to construct a new movie. So new movie could be one constant name,
the name is of course fully up to you and this should hold an object created with the curly braces here
using this object literal notation.
Now this new movie should of course hold a title let's say and the value for that will be title
and now here is a useful shorthand notation,
if you have a property name which is exactly equal to your value name, so to the variable name you're using
to derive the value you want to store in that key,
you could actually omit the value name and the colon and Javascript behind the scenes will automatically
set this to this here basically.
So if key name and value name are the same, you can use that,
of course that's not true if you had this here
for example. If you hardcoded the value of title as a string here, then you can't omit this,
this can really only be used if your value is derived dynamically from some variable and that variable
name is equal to your key name,
then you can use this notation. So that's one thing,
having the title here and actually I don't just want to have the title like this, instead I'll add an
info key and in that info key, I want to have an object which then holds that title key,
so a nested object here. In that info object which is part of the new movie,
I then also want to add the extra data here the user entered and here of course, I don't know what the
user entered here for extra name. So we can't use this notation here,
this would add a key named extra name to a new movie, not use the value entered for extra name, instead
as you learned
here, we can use square brackets to assign a dynamic property name.
Now the value is also dynamic but that's something we did before, we just point at the variable here
on the right side of the colon which holds the value we want to store in this property.
So now we have the info nested object here in new movie,
now there is one other property I'll add next to info,
so not inside of info but next to it
and that's ID
and there I will use math.random, using this globally available math object and the random method
there to generate a random number as a pseudo unique ID. Okay
so that could be a movie here,
now I want to store that in an array of movies here.
So I'll add a new movies constant here which holds an array and because an array is an object and therefore
a reference type, we can store this in a constant and still edit the value here with push and pop and
so on
and indeed, I want to push my movie onto this array,
so movies push new movie, like that.
This alone will add it there but of course it will not output something in the DOM,
nonetheless let's console log new movie here to have a look at the new movie we created and see whether
that looks all right.
So we're now ready to test this, of course
now we just need to connect this method to our button here and that's also something we did many
times. Reach out to add movie button, add an event listener, should be a click listener and point at an
add movie handler. Don't execute it as a function here, just point at the name of the function instead
so that Javascript calls that function for us
and with that if we now reload here, we can enter any name of our choice, for example Javascript - The Complete
Guide and then here any name of your choice as well for this extra property,
I'll go with level but again, you can use anything here and then a value of 5 maybe and then click add
movie and what we see is this object with a random ID and then with this nested info object with level
5, level is that property name I added here written exactly like this, casing is of course not ignored
because Javascript is case sensitive
and then here, the title which I also entered here. We're not clearing the inputs but I am not interested
in doing that here, of course you could tweak the code to do that.
The important thing here is that we create that object.
Now with that created, of course I want to output it in that list which should appear here at the bottom,
so let's make sure that this is happening as well.